<h2>About TimeTracker</h2>
Now, we are into the final stage of our course app "TimeTracker". In this blog we share our experiences and challenges faced while developing this app. As it is said nothing comes without a challenge, same goes for mobile development. There are many technical challenges developers face when making mobile apps for the enterprise. The major challenges and their possible solutions are essential to identify so as smooth mobile development process could be possible.

<h2>About TimeTracker</h2>
[app link]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1x35qPlKCUn5MzdIn6pQBQ9_QTNB4gweK


<h2>Techincal Challenges</h2>
To compete with the already existing and established big giants in app development, you need to come up with innovative technologies and dynamic applications that help you play smartly and quickly than your competitors.In the competitive world of Mobile applications, there are various challenges faced on the Technical front. Overcoming the Challenges in an appropriate manner leads to the development of a successful application.  
<br>• Gathering the requirements from the customer, we have the necessary part to create consumer articles with a thorough knowledge of our technology and knowledge.Since the requirements are sorted and satisfied with customer requirements, designing the next working system, it's a very complicated process because there is no idea how to do, so we have divided our work, within the given time frame.We do not know what development strategies are and how to implement it. Then we should write code and the Android platform is completely new to us, no one of our team members has experience in developing an app on Android. Hence the main challenge is to understand the Android ecosystem and work around it. As a team we have never worked in a programming language with JAVA for creating an Android app. We started by knowning the Android studio which is a taskbank and has all the tools one needs to ever create an Android application. 
<br>• Android Studio is important in underlying development because you can not drive a car without knowing the transmission and gear transfer if you do not have automatic transmittance of software development. Before working on the code we will have to arrange a device for coding devices and work accordingly. We're confident with Android Studio, we have started developing the application. Starting a Hello World! A step-by-step program in learning programming language. When we were adequately confident, we started developing the interface and started coding the application. Another problem we have is package name convention and we can not recognize that it can cause problems when combining problems in the future and putting together code, we realize this when we have finished the parts of the app and putting them together. The code is really worse, though it's still worse, someone has tried to keep the code cool and easy.

When we think that the decisions we make at the time of development are not up to the mark, we have changed this process.Difficulties raised in process of creating an app.
<br>• Various screen sizes:There are hundreds of sizes and resolutions of Android devices. It is very difficult to design optimal UI for these devices.
<br>• Sync data between mobile apps and backends if your app is for both online and offline use.
<br>• When performance driven apps are developed, it is important to ensure that there is no drainage of battery. 
<br>• Memory consumption
<br>• Data security
<br>• It is the dream of every developer to make their apps as explanatory as possible. But what is simple to the developer may not be so for the user.
<h2>Team Challenges</h2>
Coordination represent time and energy that group work consumes that individual work does, including the time it takes to coordinate schedules, arrange meetings, meet, correspond, make decisions collectively, integrate the contributions of group members, etc. The time spent on each of these tasks may not be great, but together they are significant. Coordination can’t be eliminated, nor should they be: after all, coordinating the efforts of our team members is an important skill. However, if coordination costs are excessive or are not factored into the structure of group assignments, groups tend to miss deadlines, their work is poorly integrated, motivation suffers, and creativity declines.
<br>Even though a team works together to achieve a goal, each person needs to know his specific role within the team. Otherwise, role confusion results. When team members lack an understanding of their specific roles or choose not to follow through with their roles, the team cannot develop as a cohesive and well-functioning unit.
<br>My team struggled to get everything done. It’s something I’ve seen over and over again, in my team and in others. With limited resources it’s hard to fit all the work in.
<h2>Benifits</h2>
This app development is the most useful project that can help a team to be efficient, regardless of application technologies and expiration. As a team, efficiency become our integral part. All work is troublesome to implement in a practical environment. This course has helped us to improve our time management skills . Another story is to develop an Android application, even though we all are from mechanical background, Android Studio and Java programming is a big challenge to develop the "TimeTracker Application". As a team we have gone through different tutorials and articles with our knowledge of Java coding skills. If we can develop any kind of Android application with Java Object Oriented Programming, we finally expanded our knowledge on coding. Blog Articles are a key part of this course at the beginning. How different blog articles are written in Android studios and one small thing about each small topic discussed among the team members. Before joining this course, Github and Zenhub were new to us. There are highlights of this course on how to organize repositories and work from different areas. This data and application code will be used.
<h2>Course Description</h2>
This course helped us to gain knowledge in application development and also about the steps involved in the development stage. It also helped us to learn how to work in team environment. A course where we can test skills like java, html programming languages, also learn the fundamentals of Github, zenhub and Android studio. .
